# sistema-rid

The generic technical sector requires an information system that meets its managerial needs, consisting of task scheduling, asset management, parts inventory, cost assessment and reporting functions. This system must be universal and with a high level of coupling with the other systems in use.

Description of the Application Universe
---

IT and Engineering departments need a computerized system to manage all their activities. Their main competencies revolve around asset maintenance tasks, which can be planned in advance or are unscheduled demands. The planned tasks are recorded in documents named Service Order (OS) and can be of five distinct types: corrective maintenance, preventive maintenance, predictive maintenance, regular inspection or external demand. From an OS, it is desired to know the date and time of issue, identification and description of the asset, type and status of the service, name and contact of the applicant, name and contact of the performer, description and priority of the work. As for the execution of the task, you want to keep a record of costs, purchases, spare parts and related procedures. When the service is completed, the total time spent on the work, personnel resources used, a report of methods employed and completion of the work, as well as invoices for related expenses must be recorded. Only the specialist and the operator(s) of the department can insert tasks in the planning. As for unscheduled demands, these can be due to failure of key equipment, aggregated activities or external requests. It is desired to keep a history of these works with identification, nature of the work, applicant, executor, date and time of completion, total time spent and a brief report of the task performed. The specialist, the operator(s) and the technician(s) (s) of the department are able to register the performance of unplanned tasks, as long as they are the executor. The system must maintain an inventory where work tools, equipment and spare parts will be registered. You want to know the quantities in stock of the different types of parts, so that alerts and shopping lists are generated as needed. A financial file should be created so that the cost associated with acquiring each element can be accessed easily. For future reference, it is necessary to know the details of the supplier and the guarantee of each acquisition. Finally, each part must be related to the respective asset. It is of great importance to survey all assets in the scope of each department, which can be divided into four classes: equipment, machinery, fleet and infrastructure. For each asset, the acquisition and start-up dates, life expectancy, warranty data, technical assistance information and maintenance intervals must be specified. Integrated into the financial file, all associated expenses must be recorded, whether operating, maintenance or acquisition. It is imperative to know the location of each asset, that is, the location and observation of where it is located. Each equipment has a specific priority level for the system it integrates. You want to keep documents linked to digitally stored assets, such as user manuals, photos, among others. The association of assets to provide a specific service constitutes a system. Systems are identified by name and function and are related to a single site. You want to know the start date of the operation, name and telephone number of the person responsible for each system. Each system has a specific degree of priority. The physical location of one or more systems is called a site. It is necessary to know the name, telephone, address, person in charge and responsible contact for each site. The responsibilities of supervision and maintenance of the sites and their elements belong to specific departments, and some sites may be under shared responsibility. It is desired to know the name, telephone, address, name and contact of the specialist for each department. The registration of parts, assets, systems, sites and departments can only be carried out by the responsible specialist. Statistical data are shared with the management, therefore the collection operational information is necessary to generate accurate reports and graphs. Information about time spent with OS, time spent with unplanned activities, time with active or system down, time with active or compromised system, number of pending OS, rate of completed OS, service delay date is of great importance , the rate of OS relocated, the causes of systems or equipment stoppages, the average deviation from the OS completion, the ratio between the time spent with corrective and preventive actions, the cost ratio of services and equipment or systems, the time spent with maintenance per equipment or systems, in the number of OS serviced per employee, of the number of OS delayed per employee and the total OS per system or asset. This data must be available in report and/or graphic format. It is necessary to know the profile and individual technical capacities of employees. It is desired that graphic data can be exported in table format, as well as data that can be passed in table format.

Attention!
---

The prototype system has been discontinued, but many of the applications that can be used by the entire community to facilitate the work of developing any management and control system
